# Java Based Traffic Simulator
## Program Working Document

### Specification
The client wwant to have a city traffic simulator with different types of vehicles such as cars, motorcycles and buses which interacted with roads, intersections and traffic light. The program will take input from the user and also display the simulation and objects' status to the user using a simple GUI. This version of the program can simulate multiple car in moving on a two lane road, interact with the traffic light and move on the another road until the vehicles reach the end of the road, for the screen of the GUI.

### Decomposition
The problem can be broken into operate objects that interact with each other to achieve the desired behaviour. 
These objects include:

#### Model.Vehicle
The vehicla classs will be abstract, and have Model.Car, Model.Bubs and model.Motorbbike as subclasses. Vehicle class has the following attribute:
 - *id* – an unique identifier that differenciate each vehicle.
 - *Length* – the physical length of the vehicle.
 - *Breadth* – the physical width of the vehicle, half the vehicle's length.
 - *Speed* – how far can the vehicle travel for each simulation turn
 - *Position* – where the vehicle is on the current road
 - *Current Model.Road* – the road the vehiccle is currently moving on
 - *Colour* - random color for each vehicle to differenciate between them.

A vehicle will be able to move using the move() method. A vehicle will move along a road, its speed depends on the speed limit of that road. When the car is in the same position 
as a traffic light it will check its state before moving. IF the light is red the car will not move, if the light is green the car will continue to move to the next road. When the vehicles position is equal to the end of a road and there is no connected road it will stop and be removed ending the simulation. The draw() method can determine how a vehicle is represented graphically.

##### Model.Car
The Car class will be a subclass of Vehicle class that represent an average size road vehicle. 

##### Model.Bus
The bus class will be a subclass of Vehicle class, represent a large road vehicle. It will inherit its attributes and behaviour from Model.Car except its length will be defined as being three times that of the car’s length. 

##### Model.Motorbike
The motorbike class will be a subclass of Vehicle class, represent a small road vehicle. It will inherit its attributes and behaviour Model.Car except its length will be defined as being half that of the car’s length.

#### Model.Road
The Road class is an object that represent a double lane road. The class has the following attributes:
 - *id* - a unique identifier that will differentiate each road.
 - *speedLimit* - the maximum speed that a vehicle on that road can travel at.
 - *length* - the number of segments (physical length) that the road has.
 - *startLocation* - the (x,y) coordiante that represent where the road begins
 - *endLocation* - the (x,y) coordiante that represent where the road ends
 - *lightsOnRoad* - all traffic lights that are on the end of this road
 - *vehicleOnRoad* - all teh vehicle that are on the current road
 - *connectedRoads* – all of the roads that the current road is physically attached to
 - *orientation* - the direction of the road graphically

This version of the program the speed will be constant and set to 1 (the car can only move a single potition each turn). The length of the road will depends on the user input. Roads can connect with each other in a simple interection. Cars will move along the road from the starting position to the end position of the road. Traffic lights can only be at the end position of each road. The road can be rotated graphically based on its orirentation. 

#### Model.TrafficLight
The Traffic Light class will represent a simple red or green traffic light. The class has the following attribute:
 - *id* - a unique identifier that will differentiate each traffic light.
 - *state* - the color the traffic light is displaying
 - *position* - where the traffic light is located on the road
 - *roadAttachedTo* - the road that the light is attached to

The traffic light operate using the operate() method. The light will randomly changing from red to green based on pseudo-random numbers generated by the program. The light will be placed at teh end position of the road only. Traffic light will interact with the vehicles at the same position. If the light is red then the vehicles will not move, and if the light is green in the vehicles will move to the next road. It can be controlled how it's drawn grapphically with the draw() method.

#### View.SimulationPanel
 - *scale* - the scale of objects drawn graphically.
 - *vehiclesToSpawn* - total numbers of vehicles that will spawn in the simulator
 - *vehiclesSpawned* - numbers of vehicles already spawned so far
 - *vehiclesRemoved* - vehicles that have reach the end of the map
 - *numberOfCycles* - the number of simulation cycles between spawns.

This class will generate all objects graphically within the program's panel. Vehicle can be created for the simulator, but the type of the vehicle is randomly selected. The update rate of the simulator depends on user's input. The simulator will run within a period of time.

#### View.EditorPanel
 - *scale* - the scale of objects drawn graphically.
The class generate graphical representation of the objects within the main frame. In Editor mode, the user can click to place roads, rotate roads and define connections with dialog boxes within the New menu option.

#### Model.SaveFile
This class will save the simulator into a file



 
